Editorial for Cow steeplechase2 (#3848)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/5_Plat/Sweep_Line.mdx

<FocusProblem problem="segSam" />

### Solution

> Let's simplify the problem a little bit and focus on finding any of overlapping segments. The segment we are looking for is on of the two.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's simplify the problem a little bit and focus on finding any overlapping segments. The segment we are looking for is one of the two.
```
is this what you meant

Author: Ok

> To find a pair of overlapping segments we use a sweep line approach. Imagine sweeping a vertical line across the scene from left to right, pausing at every segment endpoint.
> We simulate this by sorting all the segment endpoints by x and walk through this sorted array (called 'events' in the code below). As we scan we keep track of active segments
> by using a set (called 'active_segments' in the code below). When we hit the beginning point of a segment, we add it to the active set, and when we hit the ending point of a segment, we remove it from the active set.
> The operation of inserting or removing takes $\mathcal{O}(\log n)$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To find a pair of overlapping segments we use a sweep line approach. Imagine sweeping a vertical line across the scene from left to right, pausing at every segment endpoint.
We simulate this by sorting all the segment endpoints by x and walking through this sorted array (called 'events' in the code below). As we scan, we keep track of active segments
by using a set (called 'active_segments' in the code below). When we hit the beginning point of a segment, we add it to the active set, and when we hit the ending point of a segment, we remove it from the active set.
The operation of inserting or removing takes $\mathcal{O}(\log n)$.
```

Author: Done

The active set of segments is ordered by $y$ coordinate. If two segments overlap, it means that they are adjacent in the set. So every time we insert or remove
a segment we check if the adjacent segments overlap.

Here is an animation of how it works:

<video width="960" height="720" controls>
	<source src="/animations/cowsteeplechase.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

> Time complexity: $\mathcal{O}(n\log n)$.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Implementation 

**Time Complexity**: $\mathcal{O}(n\log n)$.
```

Author: Done

<LanguageSection>

> <CPPSection>
> ```cpp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<CPPSection>

```cpp
```

Author: Done

#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

long long sweep_line_x;

struct Point {
	long long x, y, segment_idx;
	bool operator<(const Point &oth) {
		return x == oth.x ? y < oth.y : x < oth.x;

> 	}

Reviewer: just name it `other` (?)

Author: Done

};
struct Segment {
	long long a, b, x, y, idx;
};

double coordinate(Segment a) {
	if (a.a == a.x) return a.b;
	return a.b + (a.y - a.b) * (sweep_line_x - a.a) / (a.x - a.a);
}

int sign(long long x) {
	if (x == 0) return 0;
	else return x < 0 ? -1 : +1;

> }

Reviewer: braces on these

int operator*(Point p1, Point p2) { return sign(p1.x * p2.y - p1.y * p2.x); }
Point operator-(Point p1, Point p2) {
	Point p = {p1.x - p2.x, p1.y - p2.y};
	return p;
}
bool intersect(Segment a, Segment b) {
	Point p1 = {a.a, a.b}, q1 = {a.x, a.y}, p2 = {b.a, b.b}, q2 = {b.x, b.y};
	return ((q2 - p1) * (q1 - p1)) * ((q1 - p1) * (p2 - p1)) >= 0 &&
	       ((q1 - p2) * (q2 - p2)) * ((q2 - p2) * (p1 - p2)) >= 0;
}

bool operator<(Segment a, Segment b) {
	return a.idx != b.idx && coordinate(a) <= coordinate(b);
}
bool operator==(Segment a, Segment b) { return a.idx == b.idx; }
long long orientation(Point a, Point b, Point c) {
	return (b.x - a.x) * (c.y - a.y) - (c.x - a.x) * (b.y - a.y);

> }

Reviewer: could you space these out and group things the operators and functions together?

Author: Done

ifstream in("cowjump.in");

> ofstream out("cowjump.out");

Reviewer: move this into main function?

Author: Done

int main() {
	int n;
	in >> n;
	vector<Segment> segments;
	vector<Point> events;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		int a, b, x, y;
		in >> a >> b >> x >> y;

		segments.push_back({a, b, x, y, i});
		events.push_back({a, b, i});
		events.push_back({x, y, i});
	}

	sort(events.begin(), events.end());

	// Keep track of active segments
	set<Segment> active_segments;
	// The two overlapping segments
	int first_segment, second_segment;
	for (int i = 0; i < 2 * n; i++) {
		first_segment = events[i].segment_idx;
		sweep_line_x = events[i].x;
		// Check if the point is the end or the beginning of a segment
		auto it = active_segments.find(segments[first_segment]);

		if (it != active_segments.end()) {
			// ending segment

> 			// Check the intersection of the segments above and below

Reviewer: try to be consistent with capitalization of comments :D

Author: Alright

			auto after = next(it), before = it;
			if (before != active_segments.begin() &&
			    after != active_segments.end()) {
				before--;
				if (intersect(segments[before->idx], segments[after->idx])) {
					first_segment = before->idx;
					second_segment = after->idx;
					break;
				}
			}
			active_segments.erase(it);
		} else {
			// new segment & check for intersection
			it = active_segments.lower_bound(segments[first_segment]);

			// Check the intersection of the segments above and below
			if (it != active_segments.end() &&
			    intersect(segments[first_segment], *it)) {
				second_segment = it->idx;
				break;
			}
			if (it != active_segments.begin()) {
				it--;
				if (intersect(segments[it->idx], segments[first_segment])) {
					second_segment = it->idx;
					break;
				}
			}
			active_segments.insert(segments[first_segment]);
		}
	}

	if (first_segment > second_segment) swap(first_segment, second_segment);

> 	// printf("%d %d\n", first_segment, second_segment);

Reviewer: remove debug statemnets

Author: Oh I forgot :))

	//  Which segment of the two is the answer
	int ans = 0;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		if (i != second_segment &&
		    intersect(segments[i], segments[second_segment]))

> 			ans++;

Reviewer: braces

Author: Ok

	}

	out << (ans > 1 ? second_segment + 1 : first_segment + 1);

> 
> 	return 0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Done

<FocusProblem problem="segSam" />

### Solution
Let's simplify the problem a little bit and focus on finding any overlapping segments. The segment we are looking for is one of the two.

> To find a pair of overlapping segments we use a sweep line approach. Imagine sweeping a vertical line across the scene from left to right, pausing at every segment endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find a pair of overlapping segments use a sweep line approach by sweeping a vertical line across the scene from left to right, pausing at every segment endpoint.
```

Author: Done.

> We simulate this by sorting all the segment endpoints by x and walking through this sorted array (called 'events' in the code below). As we scan, we keep track of active segments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We simulate this by sorting all the segment endpoints by $x$ and walking through the sorted array (called 'events' in the code below). As we scan, we keep track of active segments
```

Author: Done.

> by using a set (called 'active_segments' in the code below). When we hit the beginning point of a segment, we add it to the active set, and when we hit the ending point of a segment, we remove it from the active set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using a set (called 'active_segments' in the code below). When we hit the beginning point of a segment, add it to the active set, and remove it from the active set when we hit the ending point of a segment.
```

Reviewer 2: refer to the "it" as active segments

Author: Done.

> The operation of inserting or removing takes $\mathcal{O}(\log n)$.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Inserting or removing the active segments from the set takes $\mathcal{O}(\log n)$ per operation.
```

Author: Done.

> The active set of segments is ordered by $y$ coordinate. If two segments overlap, it means that they are adjacent in the set. So every time we insert or remove

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The active set of segments is ordered by $y$ coordinate. If two segments overlap, they are adjacent in the set., so every time we insert or remove
```

Reviewer 2: Move this to the previous paragraph or smth: The active set of segments is ordered by $y$ coordinate.

Author: Ok

> a segment we check if the adjacent segments overlap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a segment, we check if the adjacent segments overlap.
```

Author: Done.

Here is an animation of how it works:

<video width="960" height="720" controls>
	<source src="/animations/cowsteeplechase.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

## Implementation

Time complexity: $\mathcal{O}(n\log n)$.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

long long sweep_line_x;

struct Point {
	long long x, y, segment_idx;
	bool operator<(const Point &other) {
		return x == other.x ? y < other.y : x < other.x;
	}
};
struct Segment {
	long long a, b, x, y, idx;
};

double coordinate(Segment a) {
	if (a.a == a.x) { return a.b; }
	return a.b + (a.y - a.b) * (sweep_line_x - a.a) / (a.x - a.a);
}

int sign(long long x) {
	if (x == 0) {
		return 0;
	} else {
		return x < 0 ? -1 : +1;
	}
}

> int operator*(Point p1, Point p2) { return sign(p1.x * p2.y - p1.y * p2.x); }

Reviewer 2: this is inconsistent with the next line don't put everything in one line

Author: Alright  I moved them all together

Reviewer 3: wait why are the functions not included in the codesnip

Author: Ok I moved all the function in the codesnips

Point operator-(Point p1, Point p2) {
	Point p = {p1.x - p2.x, p1.y - p2.y};
	return p;
}

> bool intersect(Segment a, Segment b) {

Reviewer 2: Write a comment describing intersect

Author: OK

	Point p1 = {a.a, a.b}, q1 = {a.x, a.y}, p2 = {b.a, b.b}, q2 = {b.x, b.y};
	return ((q2 - p1) * (q1 - p1)) * ((q1 - p1) * (p2 - p1)) >= 0 &&
	       ((q1 - p2) * (q2 - p2)) * ((q2 - p2) * (p1 - p2)) >= 0;
}

long long orientation(Point a, Point b, Point c) {
	return (b.x - a.x) * (c.y - a.y) - (c.x - a.x) * (b.y - a.y);
}

bool operator<(Segment a, Segment b) {
	return a.idx != b.idx && coordinate(a) <= coordinate(b);
}

> bool operator==(Segment a, Segment b) { return a.idx == b.idx; }

Reviewer 2: again same thing here

Author: Alright. I moved them all together

> int main() {

Reviewer 2: remove the line breaks bc some of them arent really necessary

Author: Ok

	ifstream in("cowjump.in");
	ofstream out("cowjump.out");
	int n;
	in >> n;
	vector<Segment> segments;
	vector<Point> events;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		int a, b, x, y;
		in >> a >> b >> x >> y;

		segments.push_back({a, b, x, y, i});
		events.push_back({a, b, i});
		events.push_back({x, y, i});
	}

	sort(events.begin(), events.end());

	// Keep track of active segments
	set<Segment> active_segments;
	// The two overlapping segments
	int first_segment, second_segment;
	for (int i = 0; i < 2 * n; i++) {
		first_segment = events[i].segment_idx;
		sweep_line_x = events[i].x;
		// Check if the point is the end or the beginning of a segment
		auto it = active_segments.find(segments[first_segment]);

		if (it != active_segments.end()) {
			// Ending segment

> 			// Check the intersection of the segments above and below

Reviewer 2: combine these

Author: Ok

<FocusProblem problem="segSam" />

### Solution

> Let's simplify the problem a little bit and focus on finding any overlapping segments. The segment we are looking for is one of the two.

Reviewer 3: > The segment we are looking for is one of the two.

what

Reviewer 2: they probably mean "one of the two segments"... but yes, please clarify this

Author: Ok it was a mistake

> To find a pair of overlapping segments use a sweep line approach by sweeping a vertical line across the scene from left to right, pausing at every segment endpoint.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To find a pair of overlapping segments, use a sweep line approach by sweeping a vertical line across the scene from left to right, pausing at every segment endpoint.
```

Author: Done

We simulate this by sorting all the segment endpoints by $x$ and walking through the sorted array (called 'events' in the code below). As we scan, we keep track of active segments

> using a set (called 'active_segments' in the code below). When we hit the beginning point of a segment, add it to the active set, and remove it from the active set when we hit the ending point of a segment.

Reviewer 2: Make these sentences separate. It's a little too much right now

Inserting or removing the active segments from the set takes $\mathcal{O}(\log n)$ per operation.

> The active set of segments is ordered by $y$ coordinate. If two segments overlap, they are adjacent in the set, so every time we insert or remove
> a segment, we check if the adjacent segments overlap.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The active set of segments is ordered by $y$ coordinate. If two segments overlap, they are adjacent in the set, so every time we insert or remove a segment, we should check if the adjacent segments overlap.
```

Author: Ok

Here is an animation of how it works:

<video width="960" height="720" controls>
	<source src="/animations/cowsteeplechase.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

## Implementation

Time complexity: $\mathcal{O}(n\log n)$.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

long long sweep_line_x;

> struct Point {

Reviewer 3: wrap this point stuff in a codesnip

Author: Done

	return ((q2 - p1) * (q1 - p1)) * ((q1 - p1) * (p2 - p1)) >= 0 &&
	       ((q1 - p2) * (q2 - p2)) * ((q2 - p2) * (p1 - p2)) >= 0;
}

long long orientation(Point a, Point b, Point c) {
	return (b.x - a.x) * (c.y - a.y) - (c.x - a.x) * (b.y - a.y);
}

int main() {
	ifstream in("cowjump.in");
	int n;
	in >> n;
	vector<Segment> segments;
	vector<Point> events;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		int a, b, x, y;
		in >> a >> b >> x >> y;

		segments.push_back({a, b, x, y, i});
		events.push_back({a, b, i});
		events.push_back({x, y, i});
	}

	sort(events.begin(), events.end());

	// Keep track of active segments
	set<Segment> active_segments;
	// The two overlapping segments
	int first_segment, second_segment;
	for (int i = 0; i < 2 * n; i++) {
		first_segment = events[i].segment_idx;
		sweep_line_x = events[i].x;
		// Check if the point is the end or the beginning of a segment
		auto it = active_segments.find(segments[first_segment]);

		if (it != active_segments.end()) {
			// Ending segment & Check the intersection of the segments above and
			auto after = next(it), before = it;
			if (before != active_segments.begin() &&
			    after != active_segments.end()) {

> 				before--;

Reviewer: spread these lines out a bit?

Author: Done

				if (intersect(segments[before->idx], segments[after->idx])) {
					first_segment = before->idx;
					second_segment = after->idx;
					break;
				}
			}
			active_segments.erase(it);
		} else {
			// New segment & check for intersection
			it = active_segments.lower_bound(segments[first_segment]);

			// Check the intersection of the segments above and below
			if (it != active_segments.end() &&
			    intersect(segments[first_segment], *it)) {
				second_segment = it->idx;
				break;
			}
			if (it != active_segments.begin()) {
				it--;
				if (intersect(segments[it->idx], segments[first_segment])) {
					second_segment = it->idx;
					break;
				}
			}
			active_segments.insert(segments[first_segment]);
		}
	}

	if (first_segment > second_segment) swap(first_segment, second_segment);

> 	//  Which segment of the two is the answer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	// Which segment of the two is the answer
```

Author: Done

</video>

## Implementation

Time complexity: $\mathcal{O}(n\log n)$.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

long long sweep_line_x;

// BeginCodeSnip{Point structure}
struct Point {
	long long x, y, segment_idx;
	bool operator<(const Point &other) {
		return x == other.x ? y < other.y : x < other.x;
	}
};
// EndCodeSnip

struct Segment {
	long long a, b, x, y, idx;
};

double coordinate(Segment a) {
	if (a.a == a.x) { return a.b; }
	return a.b + (a.y - a.b) * (sweep_line_x - a.a) / (a.x - a.a);
}

int sign(long long x) {
	if (x == 0) {
		return 0;
	} else {
		return x < 0 ? -1 : +1;
	}
}

int operator*(Point p1, Point p2) { return sign(p1.x * p2.y - p1.y * p2.x); }
Point operator-(Point p1, Point p2) {
	Point p = {p1.x - p2.x, p1.y - p2.y};
	return p;
}
bool operator<(Segment a, Segment b) {
	return a.idx != b.idx && coordinate(a) <= coordinate(b);
}
bool operator==(Segment a, Segment b) { return a.idx == b.idx; }

// To check if two segments intersect we will use the signed area of the ABC
// triangle. This can be derived from the cross product of the vectors AB and

> // AC.

Reviewer 3: multiline comment

Reviewer: wasn't fixed 👀

Reviewer 3: was it?

Author: You know what, I'm gonna delete these lines.

Reviewer 3: ayo what

Reviewer 3: no like just even it out like this
```cpp
/*
 * To check if two segments intersect we will use the
 * signed area of the ABC triangle. This can be derived
 * from the cross product of the vectors AB and AC.
 */
```

	}
};
// EndCodeSnip

struct Segment {
	long long a, b, x, y, idx;
};

double coordinate(Segment a) {
	if (a.a == a.x) { return a.b; }
	return a.b + (a.y - a.b) * (sweep_line_x - a.a) / (a.x - a.a);
}

int sign(long long x) {
	if (x == 0) {
		return 0;
	} else {
		return x < 0 ? -1 : +1;
	}
}

int operator*(Point p1, Point p2) { return sign(p1.x * p2.y - p1.y * p2.x); }
Point operator-(Point p1, Point p2) {
	Point p = {p1.x - p2.x, p1.y - p2.y};
	return p;
}
bool operator<(Segment a, Segment b) {
	return a.idx != b.idx && coordinate(a) <= coordinate(b);
}
bool operator==(Segment a, Segment b) { return a.idx == b.idx; }

// To check if two segments intersect we will use the signed area of the ABC
// triangle. This can be derived from the cross product of the vectors AB and
// AC.
bool intersect(Segment a, Segment b) {
	Point p1 = {a.a, a.b}, q1 = {a.x, a.y}, p2 = {b.a, b.b}, q2 = {b.x, b.y};
	return ((q2 - p1) * (q1 - p1)) * ((q1 - p1) * (p2 - p1)) >= 0 &&
	       ((q1 - p2) * (q2 - p2)) * ((q2 - p2) * (p1 - p2)) >= 0;
}

long long orientation(Point a, Point b, Point c) {
	return (b.x - a.x) * (c.y - a.y) - (c.x - a.x) * (b.y - a.y);
}

int main() {
	ifstream in("cowjump.in");

> 	ofstream out("cowjump.out");

Author: ?

> 	ofstream out("cowjump.out");

Author: It's used 1 line below

> 	ofstream out("cowjump.out");

Reviewer 3: i mean `out`, not `in`

> 	ofstream out("cowjump.out");

Author: Ok Done

	int n;
	in >> n;
	vector<Segment> segments;
	vector<Point> events;
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		int a, b, x, y;
		in >> a >> b >> x >> y;

		segments.push_back({a, b, x, y, i});
		events.push_back({a, b, i});
		events.push_back({x, y, i});
	}

	sort(events.begin(), events.end());

	// Keep track of active segments
	set<Segment> active_segments;
	// The two overlapping segments
	int first_segment, second_segment;
	for (int i = 0; i < 2 * n; i++) {
		first_segment = events[i].segment_idx;
		sweep_line_x = events[i].x;
		// Check if the point is the end or the beginning of a segment
		auto it = active_segments.find(segments[first_segment]);

		if (it != active_segments.end()) {
			// Ending segment & Check the intersection of the segments above and

> 			// below

Author: autoformatter

> 			// below

Reviewer 3: yeah i know that
in that case bring some words above below so it doesn't look too bad

> 			// below

Author: OK got it

using a set (called 'active_segments' in the code below). When we hit the beginning point of a segment, add it to the active set, and remove it from the active set when we hit the ending point of a segment.

Inserting or removing the active segments from the set takes $\mathcal{O}(\log n)$ per operation.

The active set of segments is ordered by $y$ coordinate. If two segments overlap, they are adjacent in the set, so every time we insert or remove a segment, we check if the adjacent segments overlap.

Here is an animation of how it works:

<video width="960" height="720" controls>
	<source src="/animations/cowsteeplechase.mp4" type="video/mp4"/>
</video>

## Implementation

Time complexity: $\mathcal{O}(n\log n)$.

<LanguageSection>
<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

using namespace std;

long long sweep_line_x;

// BeginCodeSnip{Point structure}
struct Point {
	long long x, y, segment_idx;
	bool operator<(const Point &other) {
		return x == other.x ? y < other.y : x < other.x;
	}
};
// EndCodeSnip

> struct Segment {

Reviewer 3: wrap this struct in a codesnip asw

Author: Done

	long long a, b, x, y, idx;
};

double coordinate(Segment a) {
	if (a.a == a.x) { return a.b; }
	return a.b + (a.y - a.b) * (sweep_line_x - a.a) / (a.x - a.a);
}

int sign(long long x) {
	if (x == 0) {
		return 0;
	} else {
		return x < 0 ? -1 : +1;
	}
}

int operator*(Point p1, Point p2) { return sign(p1.x * p2.y - p1.y * p2.x); }
Point operator-(Point p1, Point p2) {
	Point p = {p1.x - p2.x, p1.y - p2.y};
	return p;
}
bool operator<(Segment a, Segment b) {
	return a.idx != b.idx && coordinate(a) <= coordinate(b);
}
bool operator==(Segment a, Segment b) { return a.idx == b.idx; }

// To check if two segments intersect we will use the signed area of the ABC
// triangle. This can be derived from the cross product of the vectors AB and
// AC.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

		first_segment = events[i].segment_idx;
		sweep_line_x = events[i].x;
		// Check if the point is the end or the beginning of a segment
		auto it = active_segments.find(segments[first_segment]);

		if (it != active_segments.end()) {
			// Ending segment & Check the intersection of the segments above and

			auto after = next(it), before = it;
			if (before != active_segments.begin() &&
			    after != active_segments.end()) {
				before--;
				if (intersect(segments[before->idx], segments[after->idx])) {
					first_segment = before->idx;
					second_segment = after->idx;
					break;
				}
			}
			active_segments.erase(it);
		} else {
			// New segment & check for intersection
			it = active_segments.lower_bound(segments[first_segment]);

			// Check the intersection of the segments above and below
			if (it != active_segments.end() &&
			    intersect(segments[first_segment], *it)) {
				second_segment = it->idx;
				break;
			}
			if (it != active_segments.begin()) {
				it--;
				if (intersect(segments[it->idx], segments[first_segment])) {
					second_segment = it->idx;
					break;
				}
			}
			active_segments.insert(segments[first_segment]);
		}
	}

> 	if (first_segment > second_segment) swap(first_segment, second_segment);

Reviewer 3: braces

Author: Done
